Claude skills are reusable prompts, you
save once and run by typing / and the
name of the prompt. Today, you'll learn
how to create your first skill
step-by-step, run them across chat,
co-work, and Claude code, and share
skills with your team. I'm David
DeWinter, your guide to all things
Claude. Open up a browser, head to
claude.ai with me, and let's dive in.
Together, we'll create a skill to catch
you up on long email threads. It'll
summarize the thread, tell you your
action items, as well as draft a reply.
To create a skill, you do not need a
paid plan. Just simply head over to the
sidebar, and then click on customize.
Skills live under this customize skills
tab. A skill is nothing fancy. It's
literally a file with a prompt. This
Gmail summary skill, for example, just
looks for recent emails to draft
responses to. Under the covers, it's a
single file called a markdown file.
Basically, it's a text file which has
special characters for formatting.
Simple skills only have a prompt, but
some more complex skills can actually
embed code. For example, this dashboard
updater skill also includes some Python
code to run its task. But regardless of
the complexity, skills are saved
prompts. So, let's create our first one.
From this screen, the easiest way is to
click the plus button, go to create
skill, and then create with Claude. You
get a prompt which, as of filming, looks
like this. We're actually going to
create a skill using its skill creator
skill. So, it's a bit meta. So, it
starts off by asking, "What do we want
to do with this skill?" Now, I've got a
response already prepared. You can grab
this from the resource guide that's in
the description. Basically, given a long
email thread or a Slack thread among my
co-workers, help me summarize the main
points, call out action items, and draft
a response. We are asking for help
building tone. This is so the email it
drafts doesn't sound like AI. Before we
look at the response, notice I added
these words, "What else should I
clarify?" This tells Claude not to make
assumptions about how we want this
built, instead default to asking us for
clarification. We see those questions
showing up right away here. So, really
don't worry about being super precise
with your first prompt. Claude will
guide you through this process. Your
questions will be different, so take the
time to respond thoughtfully. Now, while
this is running, I do want to call out
question three about trigger phrases.
Once you create a skill, you can invoke
it by the name of the skill. That's the
shortcut it references here, or Claude
will pick it up automatically based on
context. That's this option. In my
experience, while Claude is getting
better at recognizing skills through
this, it's actually more reliable to
invoke it with the shortcut. After you
answer that first round of questions,
it'll either ask you more questions or
start drafting the skill. Claude here
has drafted the skill and has separated
it into this thing called front matter
and the body. Front matter describes a
skill at a high level and details how
you use it, while the body is the actual
prompt. So, it's helped us get more
specific, which is good, and now the
next step of the process is to test
against examples. This helps you refine
your skill before you turn it on. Now,
you have a choice here. You can either
have Claude create the examples or paste
in examples yourself. I've got an email
thread ready to go, so I'll test it
against that. Now, while that's running,
for those of you who didn't reach this
step, as in it didn't create the skill,
just tell it inside of your next prompt,
"This is good. Create the skill." As for
this example email thread I just sent
in, it gives us a summary, action items,
and two draft replies. Now, I'm glossing
over the details of the summary and the
action items here because this isn't a
video about how to write emails, it's a
video about skills. But, you need to
know that this is where the real work
is. Any feedback you can give on these
test examples will make the skill
better. You can send in feedback just by
writing a prompt. I'm sure you get the
idea by now, so let's install the skill.
It gets packaged up as the skill file
and then clicking it will reveal the
prompt behind the skill. And remember,
if you keep getting asked feedback
questions, you can force the creation
just by telling Claude to do so. To
install the skill, you can either click
the save skill button here or the save
skill button up in the preview pane.
You'll see the skill saved dialog and
let's click manage here. Thread reply
now shows up in the skills list here and
you'll see its description and the
prompt down below. Now, here's a cool
thing to know about skills. These
prompts are super long, right? So, if
you have all the prompts from all the
skills you have loaded in every
conversation, Claude would probably get
confused on what to do. That's why these
prompts don't get loaded automatically.
They only get loaded when a skill is
triggered. And a skill is triggered in
one of two ways. The first is when
typing the skill name directly and the
second is when Claude infers from the
context that it needs to be used.
Though, the first way is definitely more
reliable. From here, try your skill by
clicking the three dots in the top right
and then clicking try and chat. This is
how you invoke skills, a forward slash
plus the name of the skill. Type in the
context that your skill needs and then
submit it. Now, you might find that even
with all that iteration, your skill
might not be that good. It might work,
but just not as well as you doing it on
your own. You're on the right path. Keep
using it and then tune it right
afterward. You can do that simply by
asking Claude to update the skill. For
example, I don't like signing off emails
with the word best. So, I'm just going
to tell Claude to update the skill not
to do that. In a few seconds, it makes
the changes and you can continue
building from there. Great skills have
three components. They're specific,
they've been built based on real
examples, and they've stood the test of
time. The skill we just built summarizes
and drafts replies based on your voice,
but skills get more interesting when you
teach them the rules that only you know
about your business. Let me show you
what that looks like with today's
sponsor, QuickBooks Workforce. Okay, so
say you run payroll for a small business
and before you hit submit, you want a
quick sanity check that everything looks
okay. You can do that with a skill. So,
the key is to get the data out of the
system that you're using. QuickBooks
payroll can do that when you click
preview payroll details. You can save
this PDF, upload it into Claude, and
then run your skill. It flagged a couple
things I need to pay attention to, so
now I can go back and fix my payroll.
Oh, and I hope you caught that you don't
even have to remember your skill's name.
You just type the forward slash key and
all of your skills show up in an auto
complete window. If you've got a small
business, payroll can be a huge
challenge with so many taxes, fees, and
state-specific requirements to keep
track of. If you feel that burden, check
out QuickBooks Workforce. All your
employee records stay in one place, your
team can add their timesheets through a
mobile app, and you can make sure your
payroll goes out on time every time.
Check out QuickBooks Workforce using the
link in the description below for 50%
off for 3 months. Now, we just built
this thread reply skill on Claude on the
web, but if you download Claude for the
desktop, the same skill is about to show
up somewhere we didn't install it. Check
it out. When you install Claude desktop,
you get access to three apps: chat,
co-work, and code. We've still got the
customize button here, too, and when we
click on it and then go to skills,
you'll see the thread reply skill is
still there. I didn't have to install it
separately. These environments are all
connected. Let's go back here and see
how this works inside of the co-work
app. Co-work introduces some cool
features on top of chat, and the main
one is that you can work in a local
folder. The reason that's so valuable is
so you can jumpstart every conversation
with all the context in that folder. For
example, the folder I just selected has
this file about our business, this file
about our financials, and this file
about our team. So, back in Coda, I can
ask it use the business context in this
folder to and then invoke the thread
reply skill. And then I'll paste in the
perfect email thread to use it on. Now,
while this is working, you'll see a
whole number of new things on the right
side of the page here. If you're
interested more in Coda, check out our
tutorial in the top right. So, this is
cool. It's like we've saved our prompt
inside of this thread reply skill, and
we get the same type of result inside of
Coda. We get the email summary, action
items for me, and a draft reply. And you
don't just see this in Coda, you'll see
it across the Claude ecosystem. That
includes Claude for Word,
Claude for Excel,
and Claude for PowerPoint. Claude Code
works differently though. So, let's
spend a few minutes reviewing how skills
work there. Here I've got Claude Code
running inside of VS Code. I like this
view because I can see all the files of
the folder that I care about on the left
side of the screen. To make this easier
to follow, I won't use the terminal
today, but everything I show you will
also work in the terminal. So, let's try
our thread reply skill. When you type
{slash} in Claude Code, you'll quickly
find out that the skill list here
doesn't match the rest of the Claude
ecosystem. So, what's the deal with
that? Skills are installed differently
here, and you can get some insight on
that by asking about global versus
project skills. Global skills are
available to every Claude Code instance
across your machine, and then project
level skills live inside this folder.
Now, to create a skill, you can use the
same pattern that we used on the web,
and you can even ask Claude Code for
help creating a skill. It takes you down
a very similar road. It'll tell you what
it needs, and then it asks you what you
want. But we've already built this
thread reply skill. So, is there a way
to import it into Claude Code? Let's
take a look. I've just gone back to the
skills view inside of Claude. You can
get this on the desktop or the web app.
With the thread reply skill selected,
I'm going to hit these three dots and
then click download. When you're
prompted for a file name, actually
rename it to .zip. The reason for that
will be clear in just a second. Now,
extract the zip file, you're going to
get a folder with a skill file in it,
and it will look something like this. On
the right side of the screen, we have
the folder that's open in Claude code.
To install a skill here, you need to
copy it into a skills folder inside a
.claude folder. I'll move the thread
reply folder, not the skill file
directly, but the folder into the skills
folder. Back in VS Code, you can see
that folder structure show up here in
the left sidebar. And now it doesn't
show up in your current Claude code
session, but if you start a new one and
then try the skill, you'll see it's
recognized. Now, before we leave this
example, one cool thing to keep in mind,
this folder structure of .claude/skills
also works within co-work. That means if
you're sharing a folder with someone,
you can also share skills this way. So,
let's answer the top question that I get
from teams that I train on Claude. How
do we share skills? Path number one to
share skills is to use a zip file. Now,
I just showed you how you can download a
skill out of Claude using the three dots
menu here. So, if you have a skill to
share, download it first here, then have
your colleague click this plus button
under skills, go to create skill, and
then upload a skill. Then they can
choose a zip file or a skill file to
upload into Claude. Now that we've
covered that, let me share why you
should never do it. You now have two
copies of the skill, one on your machine
and one on your friend's machine. So, if
one of you updates the skill, you're now
running two different versions, and you
have to run through this download upload
process to get back in sync. Path number
two solves this problem, but it only
works if you have a Claude Teams or
Enterprise account. Organization-wide
admins get access to this special
organization settings view. I'm going to
take you down on the left side to the
section called skills. There are some
interesting skill settings here, but I'm
going to direct your attention all the
way to the bottom to organization
skills. You can upload skills the exact
same way I showed you before, but this
time they're accessible to your entire
Quad organization. These skills can be
used in the exact same way that I've
showed you before, and in fact, if you
go to the customize skills view, you'll
also see a new section for those
organization-wide skills. Now, one thing
worth knowing about organization skills,
you can use them, but you can't edit
them. But, if you want to make a change,
you can always ask your Quad admin to
download the skill and send it to you.
Now, if you don't have a Quad Teams
account, but you do have a shared cloud
drive like OneDrive or Google Drive,
then there is an experimental way I
found to share skills. Here's how it
works. First, make sure you sync that
drive down to your local machine. That's
what this folder is. Then, for the
folder you want to work in, right click
and click on something that looks like
always keep on this device. This menu
option will be called something
different depending on the tool you're
using. This is for OneDrive. Next, load
up Co-work and select the folder that
you just downloaded. Inside this folder,
we've got a Quad folder with a skills
folder, which contains a skill. But, for
Co-work to pick up the skill, it's got
to be in a dot quad folder.
Unfortunately, OneDrive does not support
folders that start with a dot. So, we've
got to settle for Quad as is, and then
we use the special file called quad.md
to preload the skills in the folder.
This is a bit advanced, so if you want
to learn more, check out the resource
guide in the description for the full
setup. Let me show you how this works.
Now, first of all, the skill is not
installed anywhere, so it doesn't show
up in autocomplete. But, I can still say
run the contract generator, that's the
name of the skill, on this deal notes
file. And you can see, before it even
loads the file, it'll load the skill
that we have in the directory, even
though I misspelled it as contractor
generator instead of contract. We'll
check back on this one in just a minute.
Let me take you through the last option.
This is Git. It's a source control
system, which is mainly used by software
developers. Because skills are basically
markdown or text files, it's really
useful to have a version history. This
is super useful in case someone modifies
a skill and makes it worse by accident.
Git shows you this version history and
allows you to revert to previous
versions. Git can get complex, so we'll
stop our overview here. But if you are
non-technical and you want to learn more
about how to use Git with your team, let
me know in the comments. Now you know
how to build a Claude skill. You know
how to run them in chat, in co-work, and
in Claude code, and you know four ways
to share them with your team. Your next
step is to connect your apps with your
skills, which you can learn more about
here. Now big thanks to our sponsor
QuickBooks Workforce, link in the
description below for 50% off for 3
months. I'm David DeWinter and I'll see
you in the next video.